doc/legacy-sms.rst, before:

Support for Legacy SMS
===============================================================================

Apache Configuration
````````````````````

This application implements views emulating views on the legacy SMS system. It
is intended that emulated views may be redirected directly to this application
using Apache configuration similar to the following:

.. code:: apache

    # Redirect configuration for offloading onto the new SMS provider.
    RewriteEngine On

    # If necessary, enable debugging support by uncommenting these lines:
    # RewriteLog "/var/log/apache2/rewrite.log"
    # RewriteLogLevel 3

    # Requests which are passed on to new provider can use the URL path
    # directly.
    RewriteRule "^/media/(.*)/embed/?$" "https://ump.uis.cam.ac.uk/legacy$0" [L]

    # Handle any requests passed back the legacy application by the new
    # provider.
    RewriteRule "^/_legacy/(.*)$" "/$1" [PT,L]

Installation
````````````

Add the ``legacysms`` application to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` configuration as
usual and add the following to your URL configuration:

.. code::

    from django.urls import path

    # ...

    urlpatterns = [
        # ....
        path('legacy/', include('legacysms.urls', namespace='legacysms')),
        # ....
    ]

Views and serializers
`````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.views
    :members:

Redirection back to legacy SMS
``````````````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.redirect
    :members:

Settings
````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.defaultsettings
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Application configuration
`````````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.apps
    :members:

Commit message:

legacysms: add redirect rule for downloads
Add a redirect helper for direct media downloads from the SMS. Unlike
the media embed and RSS views, these cannot be directly handled by the
SMS web application. Rather than configuring *another* redirect
endpoint, we assume that the Apache server running on the legacy SMS has
been configured to know that URLs for the form
"_legacy/_downloads/<media>/<clip>.<extension>" should be passed to the
downloads.sms.cam.ac.uk box.

This slightly complicates the configuration on the legacy SMS end but
means that we can retain a simple redirect URL scheme for this web app.

doc/legacy-sms.rst, after:

Support for Legacy SMS
===============================================================================

Apache Configuration
````````````````````

This application implements views emulating views on the legacy SMS system. It
is intended that emulated views may be redirected directly to this application
using Apache configuration similar to the following:

.. code:: apache

    # Redirect configuration for offloading onto the new SMS provider.
    RewriteEngine On

    # If necessary, enable debugging support by uncommenting these lines:
    # RewriteLog "/var/log/apache2/rewrite.log"
    # RewriteLogLevel 3

    # Requests which are passed on to new provider can use the URL path
    # directly.
    RewriteRule "^/media/(.*)/embed/?$" "https://ump.uis.cam.ac.uk/legacy$0" [L]

    # Handle any requests passed back the legacy application by the new
    # provider. Download requests are passed on to the download server which has
    # a similar Apache configuration to handle _legacy URLs.
    RewriteRule "^/_legacy/_downloads/(.*)$" "https://downloads.sms.cam.ac.uk/_legacy/$0" [L]
    RewriteRule "^/_legacy/(.*)$" "/$1" [PT,L]

Installation
````````````

Add the ``legacysms`` application to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` configuration as
usual and add the following to your URL configuration:

.. code::

    from django.urls import path

    # ...

    urlpatterns = [
        # ....
        path('legacy/', include('legacysms.urls', namespace='legacysms')),
        # ....
    ]

Views and serializers
`````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.views
    :members:

Redirection back to legacy SMS
``````````````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.redirect
    :members:

Settings
````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.defaultsettings
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Application configuration
`````````````````````````

.. automodule:: legacysms.apps
    :members:
